https://eriktorenberg.substack.com/p/reconciling-effective-altruism-and?utm_source=tldrnewsletter

SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried

EA is all about arbitraging philanthropically — if giving one dollar can save 100 lives in Africa whereas only one in America, then it’s worth redirecting that money to Africa. 

The critique of that has always been the same as the critique of utilitarianism, which is that you get into a level of abstraction where you basically start to play God. 

suppose you could roll the dice and with 51 percent odds, you’d get another earth. But with 49 percent probability, you would lose the one earth that you have — do you roll the dice?

감각질(感覺質) 또는 퀄리아(qualia)는 어떤 것을 지각하면서 느끼게 되는 기분, 떠오르는 심상 따위로서, 말로 표현하기 어려운 특질을 가리킨다. 일인칭 시점이기에 주관적인 특징이 있으며 객관적인 관찰이 어렵다.

The problem with ethics by Excel spreadsheet, to paraphrase Antonio Garcia Martinez, is that at some point you need the moral infinities that you put into the spreadsheet. Why don't you dice up newborns and harvest them for organs?

humans are special in ways that the math can’t account for. And we can't just rob them of life, even if the math works out.

We’ve spent trillions of dollars in the last 60 years trying to reduce inequality with welfare, and it’s been a disaster: The family formation rate has gotten significantly worse, we have a massive prison problem, and disparities haven’t been reduced. 

Effective accelerationism, often abbreviated as "e/acc", is a 21st-century philosophical movement that advocates for an explicitly pro-technology stance. 